# How to Install Arch Linux
- Be sure to read the friendly manual if you're not sure about something! 
https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Main_page
**Mac (Intel-based/X86_64):**

1. **Download the image:** First, download the latest version of Arch Linux 
from [archlinux.org](https://www.archlinux.org/download/). Choose "Arch ISO" if 
you want to install Arch directly on your Mac.

2. **Create a bootable disk using Rufus:** Open Rufus and follow these steps:

   a. Click on the "Select image file" button and select the downloaded .iso 
file.
   
   b. In the "Partitioning scheme" dropdown, choose "MBR (x86-32/64)".
   
   c. Click on the "Start" button to begin creating a bootable disk. This may 
take a while depending on your computer's speed.

3. **Insert the bootable disk and restart:** Insert the newly created bootable 
disk into your Mac, and turn it on. You should now see a black screen with the 
text "Booting Arch Linux".

4. **Choose the location of installation:** After logging in, you will be 
presented with a graphical user interface (GUI). Choose the "Installation" option 
from the menu.

   - **Manual partitioning:** If you prefer to create partitions manually, click 
on "Manual Partitioning" and follow the instructions.
   
   - **Automated partitioning:** If you want to use Arch's partitioning options, 
click on "Automatic Partitioning" and follow the instructions.

5. **Select the installation drive:** In the "Installation device" dropdown, 
select the drive where you want to install Arch Linux.

6. **Choose a keymap:** The default keymap is usually fine for most users. 
However, if your keyboard layout is different from English, choose the 
appropriate one in the "Keymap" dropdown.

7. **Select the installation type:** Choose between a "Full Install" or a 
"Netinstall". A full install will give you all of the necessary tools to work 
with Arch Linux, while a netinstall will allow you to download and install 
packages later using `pacman`.

8. **Choose a mirror:** Select the most reliable server in the "Select mirror" 
dropdown.

9. **Review and confirm installation details:** Review the installation details 
and click on "Begin Installation" to continue with the installation process.

10. **Write the changes to the disk:** Once you're ready, click on "Install Arch 
Linux" to begin writing the changes to your hard drive. This may take a while 
depending on your computer's speed.

11. **Installation complete!** The installation will now restart and you'll be 
prompted to choose a username and password for the new user account.

12. **Enjoy your new Arch Linux system!** Start using it as you would any other 
operating system. Remember, Arch is an open-source project and anyone can 
participate in its development. If you have any questions or concerns, feel free 
to ask!

**Windows:**

1. **Download the ISO image:** Download the latest version of Arch Linux from 
[archlinux.org](https://www.archlinux.org/download/). Choose "Arch ISO" if you 
want to install Arch directly on your Windows system.

2. **Create a bootable disk using Rufus:** Open Rufus and follow these steps:

   a. Click on the "Select image file" button and select the downloaded .iso 
file.
   
   b. In the "Partitioning scheme" dropdown, choose "MBR (x86-32/64)".
   
   c. Click on the "Start" button to begin creating a bootable disk. This may 
take a while depending on your computer's speed.

3. **Insert the bootable disk and restart:** Insert the newly created bootable 
disk into your Windows system, and turn it on. You should now see a black screen 
with the text "Booting Arch Linux".

4. **Choose the location of installation:** After logging in, you will be 
presented with a graphical user interface (GUI). Choose the "Installation" option 
from the menu.

   - **Manual partitioning:** If you prefer to create partitions manually, click 
on "Manual Partitioning" and follow the instructions.
   
   - **Automated partitioning:** If you want to use Arch's partitioning options, 
click on "Automatic Partitioning" and follow the instructions.

5. **Select the installation drive:** In the "Installation device" dropdown, 
select the drive where you want to install Arch Linux.

6. **Choose a keymap:** The default keymap is usually fine for most users. 
However, if your keyboard layout is different from English, choose the 
appropriate one in the "Keymap" dropdown.

7. **Select the installation type:** Choose between a "Full Install" or a 
"Netinstall". A full install will give you all of the necessary tools to work 
with Arch Linux, while a netinstall will allow you to download and install 
packages later using `pacman`.

8. **Choose a mirror:** Select the most reliable server in the "Select mirror" 
dropdown.

9. **Review and confirm installation details:** Review the installation details 
and click on "Begin Installation" to continue with the installation process.

10. **Write the changes to the disk:** Once you're ready, click on "Install Arch 
Linux" to begin writing the changes to your hard drive. This may take a while 
depending on your computer's speed.

11. **Installation complete!** The installation will now restart and you'll be 
prompted to choose a username and password for the new user account.

12. **Enjoy your new Arch Linux system!** Start using it as you would any other 
operating system. Remember, Arch is an open-source project and anyone can 
participate in its development. If you have any questions or concerns, feel free 
to ask!

**Linux machine (both Intel and ARM):**

1. **Download the ISO image:** Download the latest version of Arch Linux from 
[archlinux.org](https://www.archlinux.org/download/). Choose "Arch ISO" if you 
want to install Arch directly on your Linux machine.

2. **Create a bootable disk using Rufus:** Open Rufus and follow these steps:

   a. Click on the "Select image file" button and select the downloaded .iso 
file.
   
   b. In the "Partitioning scheme" dropdown, choose "MBR (x86-32/64)".
   
   c. Click on the "Start" button to begin creating a bootable disk. This may 
take a while depending on your computer's speed.

3. **Insert the bootable disk and restart:** Insert the newly created bootable 
disk into your Linux machine, and turn it on. You should now see a black screen 
with the text "Booting Arch Linux".

4. **Choose the location of installation:** After logging in, you will be 
presented with a graphical user interface (GUI). Choose the "Installation" option 
from the menu.

   - **Manual partitioning:** If you prefer to create partitions manually, click 
on "Manual Partitioning" and follow the instructions.
   
   - **Automated partitioning:** If you want to use Arch's partitioning options, 
click on "Automatic Partitioning" and follow the instructions.

5. **Select the installation drive:** In the "Installation device" dropdown, 
select the drive where you want to install Arch Linux.

6. **Choose a keymap:** The default keymap is usually fine for most users. 
However, if your keyboard layout is different from English, choose the 
appropriate one in the "Keymap" dropdown.

7. **Select the installation type:** Choose between a "Full Install" or a 
"Netinstall". A full install will give you all of the necessary tools to work 
with Arch Linux, while a netinstall will allow you to download and install 
packages later using `pacman`.

8. **Choose a mirror:** Select the most reliable server in the "Select mirror" 
dropdown.

9. **Review and confirm installation details:** Review the installation details 
and click on "Begin Installation" to continue with the installation process.

10. **Write the changes to the disk:** Once you're ready, click on "Install Arch 
Linux" to begin writing the changes to your hard drive. This may take a while 
depending on your computer's speed.

11. **Installation complete!** The installation will now restart and you'll be 
prompted to choose a username and password for the new user account.

12. **Enjoy your new Arch Linux system!** Start using it as you would any other 
operating system. Remember, Arch is an open-source project and anyone can 
participate in its development. If you have any questions or concerns, feel free 
to ask!

**Troubleshooting:**

If you encounter issues during the installation process, please follow these 
steps:

1. **Check your BIOS settings:** Make sure that the Secure Boot option is 
disabled. This may require re-flashing the UEFI firmware on your computer's 
mainboard.

2. **Check for any disk errors:** Try to boot from a live Linux distribution 
(e.g., Ubuntu) to check if there are any disk problems. If you're unable to boot 
from a live environment, you can use a disk utility like `testdisk` or `photorec` 
to try and recover the partition table.

3. **Check your network connection:** Make sure that your computer is connected 
to a working internet connection.

4. **Check your mirror list:** Check the Arch Linux mirror list on 
[archlinux.org](https://archlinux.org/mirrors/) for any issues or outdated 
mirrors. Update your mirrorlist file with the latest mirrors to ensure you're 
using the most up-to-date information.

5. **Use a different boot device:** If possible, try booting from a USB stick or 
another external drive to install Arch Linux. This may resolve issues related to 
disk errors or corruption.

6. **Contact support:** If all else fails, you can ask for help on the [Arch 
Linux forum](https://forum.archlinux.org/) or reach out to your local Arch Linux 
user group.


